docs/sphinx/reference-core.rst, before:

OBS Core API Reference
======================

.. code:: cpp

   #include <obs.h>


.. _obs_init_shutdown_reference:

Initialization, Shutdown, and Information
-----------------------------------------

.. function:: bool obs_startup(const char *locale, const char *module_config_path, profiler_name_store_t *store)

   Initializes the OBS core context.
  
   :param  locale:             The locale to use for modules
                               (E.G. "en-US")
   :param  module_config_path: Path to module config storage directory
                               (or *NULL* if none)
   :param  store:              The profiler name store for OBS to use or NULL
   :return:                    *false* if already initialized or failed
                               to initialize

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_shutdown(void)

   Releases all data associated with OBS and terminates the OBS context.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_initialized(void)

   :return: true if the main OBS context has been initialized

---------------------

.. function:: uint32_t obs_get_version(void)

   :return: The current core version

---------------------

.. function:: const char *obs_get_version_string(void)

   :return: The current core version string

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_set_locale(const char *locale)

   Sets a new locale to use for modules.  This will call
   obs_module_set_locale for each module with the new locale.
  
   :param  locale: The locale to use for modules

---------------------

.. function:: const char *obs_get_locale(void)

   :return: The current locale

---------------------

.. function:: profiler_name_store_t *obs_get_profiler_name_store(void)

   :return: The profiler name store (see util/profiler.h) used by OBS,
            which is either a name store passed to obs_startup, an
            internal name store, or NULL in case obs_initialized()
            returns false.

---------------------

.. function:: int obs_reset_video(struct obs_video_info *ovi)

   Sets base video output base resolution/fps/format.
  
   Note: This data cannot be changed if an output is currently active.

   Note: The graphics module cannot be changed without fully destroying
   the OBS context.

   :param   ovi: Pointer to an obs_video_info structure containing the
                 specification of the graphics subsystem,
   :return:      | OBS_VIDEO_SUCCESS          - Success
                 | OBS_VIDEO_NOT_SUPPORTED    - The adapter lacks capabilities
                 | OBS_VIDEO_INVALID_PARAM    - A parameter is invalid
                 | OBS_VIDEO_CURRENTLY_ACTIVE - Video is currently active
                 | OBS_VIDEO_MODULE_NOT_FOUND - The graphics module is not found
                 | OBS_VIDEO_FAIL             - Generic failure

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   struct obs_video_info {
           /**
            * Graphics module to use (usually "libobs-opengl" or "libobs-d3d11")
            */
           const char          *graphics_module;
   
           uint32_t            fps_num;       /**< Output FPS numerator */
           uint32_t            fps_den;       /**< Output FPS denominator */
   
           uint32_t            base_width;    /**< Base compositing width */
           uint32_t            base_height;   /**< Base compositing height */
   
           uint32_t            output_width;  /**< Output width */
           uint32_t            output_height; /**< Output height */
           enum video_format   output_format; /**< Output format */
   
           /** Video adapter index to use (NOTE: avoid for optimus laptops) */
           uint32_t            adapter;
   
           /** Use shaders to convert to different color formats */
           bool                gpu_conversion;
   
           enum video_colorspace colorspace;  /**< YUV type (if YUV) */
           enum video_range_type range;       /**< YUV range (if YUV) */
   
           enum obs_scale_type scale_type;    /**< How to scale if scaling */
   };

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_reset_audio(const struct obs_audio_info *oai)

   Sets base audio output format/channels/samples/etc.

   Note: Cannot reset base audio if an output is currently active.

   :return: *true* if successful, *false* otherwise

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   struct obs_audio_info {
           uint32_t            samples_per_sec;
           enum speaker_layout speakers;
   };

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_get_video_info(struct obs_video_info *ovi)

   Gets the current video settings.
   
   :return: *false* if no video

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_get_audio_info(struct obs_audio_info *oai)

   Gets the current audio settings.
   
   :return: *false* if no audio

---------------------


Libobs Objects
--------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_source_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all source types (inputs, filters, transitions, etc).

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_input_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available inputs source types.
  
   Inputs are general source inputs (such as capture sources, device sources,
   etc).

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_filter_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available filter source types.
  
   Filters are sources that are used to modify the video/audio output of
   other sources.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_transition_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available transition source types.
  
   Transitions are sources used to transition between two or more other
   sources.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_output_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available output types.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_encoder_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available encoder types.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_service_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available service types.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_sources(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_source_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates all input sources.
  
   Callback function returns true to continue enumeration, or false to end
   enumeration.
  
   Use :c:func:`obs_source_get_ref()` or
   :c:func:`obs_source_get_weak_source()` if you want to retain a
   reference after obs_enum_sources finishes.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_scenes(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_source_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates all scenes.
  
   Callback function returns true to continue enumeration, or false to end
   enumeration.
  
   Use :c:func:`obs_source_get_ref()` or
   :c:func:`obs_source_get_weak_source()` if you want to retain a
   reference after obs_enum_scenes finishes.
 
---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_outputs(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_output_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates outputs.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_encoders(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_encoder_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates encoders.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_get_source_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets a source by its name.
  
   Increments the source reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_source_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_output_t *obs_get_output_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets an output by its name.

   Increments the output reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_output_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_encoder_t *obs_get_encoder_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets an encoder by its name.

   Increments the encoder reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_encoder_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_service_t *obs_get_service_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets an service by its name.

   Increments the service reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_service_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_data_t *obs_save_source(obs_source_t *source)

   :return: A new reference to a source's saved data

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_load_source(obs_data_t *data)

   :return: A source created from saved data

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_load_sources(obs_data_array_t *array, obs_load_source_cb cb, void *private_data)

   Helper function to load active sources from a data array.

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   typedef void (*obs_load_source_cb)(void *private_data, obs_source_t *source);

---------------------

.. function:: obs_data_array_t *obs_save_sources(void)

   :return: A data array with the saved data of all active sources

---------------------

.. function:: obs_data_array_t *obs_save_sources_filtered(obs_save_source_filter_cb cb, void *data)

   :return: A data array with the saved data of all active sources,
            filtered by the *cb* function

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   typedef bool (*obs_save_source_filter_cb)(void *data, obs_source_t *source);

---------------------


Video, Audio, and Graphics
--------------------------

.. function:: void obs_enter_graphics(void)

   Helper function for entering the OBS graphics context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_leave_graphics(void)

   Helper function for leaving the OBS graphics context.

---------------------

.. function:: audio_t *obs_get_audio(void)

   :return: The main audio output handler for this OBS context

---------------------

.. function:: video_t *obs_get_video(void)

   :return: The main video output handler for this OBS context

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_set_output_source(uint32_t channel, obs_source_t *source)

   Sets the primary output source for a channel.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_get_output_source(uint32_t channel)

   Gets the primary output source for a channel and increments the reference
   counter for that source.  Use :c:func:`obs_source_release()` to release.

---------------------

.. function:: gs_effect_t *obs_get_base_effect(enum obs_base_effect effect)

   Returns a commoinly used base effect.

   :param effect: | Can be one of the following values:
                  | OBS_EFFECT_DEFAULT             - RGB/YUV
                  | OBS_EFFECT_DEFAULT_RECT        - RGB/YUV (using texture_rect)
                  | OBS_EFFECT_OPAQUE              - RGB/YUV (alpha set to 1.0)
                  | OBS_EFFECT_SOLID               - RGB/YUV (solid color only)
                  | OBS_EFFECT_BICUBIC             - Bicubic downscale
                  | OBS_EFFECT_LANCZOS             - Lanczos downscale
                  | OBS_EFFECT_BILINEAR_LOWRES     - Bilinear low resolution downscale
                  | OBS_EFFECT_PREMULTIPLIED_ALPHA - Premultiplied alpha

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_render_main_view(void)

   Renders the main view.

   Note: This function is deprecated.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_render_main_texture(void)

   Renders the main output texture.  Useful for rendering a preview pane
   of the main output.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_set_master_volume(float volume)

   Sets the master user volume.

---------------------

.. function:: float obs_get_master_volume(void)

   :return: The master user volume

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_audio_monitoring_devices(obs_enum_audio_device_cb cb, void *data)

   Enumerates audio devices which can be used for audio monitoring.

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   typedef bool (*obs_enum_audio_device_cb)(void *data, const char *name, const char *id);

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_set_audio_monitoring_device(const char *name, const char *id)

   Sets the current audio device for audio monitoring.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_get_audio_monitoring_device(const char **name, const char **id)

   Gets the current audio device for audio monitoring.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_add_main_render_callback(void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)
              void obs_remove_main_render_callback(void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)

   Adds/removes a main rendering callback.  Allows custom rendering to
   the main stream/recording output.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_add_raw_video_callback(const struct video_scale_info *conversion, void (*callback)(void *param, struct video_data *frame), void *param)
              void obs_remove_raw_video_callback(void (*callback)(void *param, struct video_data *frame), void *param)

   Adds/removes a raw video callback.  Allows the ability to obtain raw
   video frames without necessarily using an output.

   :param conversion: Specifies conversion requirements.  Can be NULL.
   :param callback:   The callback that receives raw video frames.
   :param param:      The private data associated with the callback.


Primary signal/procedure handlers
---------------------------------

.. function:: signal_handler_t *obs_get_signal_handler(void)

   :return: The primary obs signal handler

   See :ref:`core_signal_handler_reference` for more information on
   core signals.

---------------------

.. function:: proc_handler_t *obs_get_proc_handler(void)

   :return: The primary obs procedure handler


.. _core_signal_handler_reference:

Core OBS Signals
----------------

**source_create** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been created.

**source_destroy** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been destroyed.

**source_remove** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been removed (:c:func:`obs_source_remove()`
   has been called on the source).

**source_save** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is being saved.

**source_load** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is being loaded.

**source_activate** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been activated in the main view (visible on
   stream/recording).

**source_deactivate** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been deactivated from the main view (no
   longer visible on stream/recording).

**source_show** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is visible on any display and/or on the main
   view.

**source_hide** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is no longer visible on any display and/or on
   the main view.

**source_rename** (ptr source, string new_name, string prev_name)

   Called when a source has been renamed.

**source_volume** (ptr source, in out float volume)

   Called when a source's volume has changed.

**source_transition_start** (ptr source)

   Called when a transition has started its transition.

**source_transition_video_stop** (ptr source)

   Called when a transition has stopped its video transitioning.

**source_transition_stop** (ptr source)

   Called when a transition has stopped its transition.

**channel_change** (int channel, in out ptr source, ptr prev_source)

   Called when :c:func:`obs_set_output_source()` has been called.

**master_volume** (in out float volume)

   Called when the master volume has changed.

**hotkey_layout_change** ()

   Called when the hotkey layout has changed.

**hotkey_register** (ptr hotkey)

   Called when a hotkey has been registered.

**hotkey_unregister** (ptr hotkey)

   Called when a hotkey has been unregistered.

**hotkey_bindings_changed** (ptr hotkey)

   Called when a hotkey's bindings has changed.

---------------------


.. _display_reference:

Displays
--------

.. function:: obs_display_t *obs_display_create(const struct gs_init_data *graphics_data)

   Adds a new window display linked to the main render pipeline.  This creates
   a new swap chain which updates every frame.
  
   *(Important note: do not use more than one display widget within the
   hierarchy of the same base window; this will cause presentation
   stalls on Macs.)*

   :param  graphics_data: The swap chain initialization data
   :return:               The new display context, or NULL if failed

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   enum gs_color_format {
           [...]
           GS_RGBA,
           GS_BGRX,
           GS_BGRA,
           GS_RGBA16F,
           GS_RGBA32F,
           [...]
   };
   
   enum gs_zstencil_format {
           GS_ZS_NONE,
           GS_Z16,
           GS_Z24_S8,
           GS_Z32F,
           GS_Z32F_S8X24
   };
   
   struct gs_window {
   #if defined(_WIN32)
           void                    *hwnd;
   #elif defined(__APPLE__)
           __unsafe_unretained id  view;
   #elif defined(__linux__) || defined(__FreeBSD__)
           uint32_t                id;
           void                    *display;
   #endif
   };
   
   struct gs_init_data {
           struct gs_window        window;
           uint32_t                cx, cy;
           uint32_t                num_backbuffers;
           enum gs_color_format    format;
           enum gs_zstencil_format zsformat;
           uint32_t                adapter;
   };

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_destroy(obs_display_t *display)

   Destroys a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_resize(obs_display_t *display, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy)

   Changes the size of a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_add_draw_callback(obs_display_t *display, void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)

   Adds a draw callback for a display context, which will be called
   whenever the display is rendered.
  
   :param  display: The display context
   :param  draw:    The draw callback which is called each time a frame
                    updates
   :param  param:   The user data to be associated with this draw callback

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_remove_draw_callback(obs_display_t *display, void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)

   Removes a draw callback for a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_set_enabled(obs_display_t *display, bool enable)

   Enables/disables a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_display_enabled(obs_display_t *display)

   :return: *true* if the display is enabled, *false* otherwise

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_set_background_color(obs_display_t *display, uint32_t color)

   Sets the background (clear) color for the display context.

Commit message:

libobs: Add obs_get_transition_by_name

docs/sphinx/reference-core.rst, after:

OBS Core API Reference
======================

.. code:: cpp

   #include <obs.h>


.. _obs_init_shutdown_reference:

Initialization, Shutdown, and Information
-----------------------------------------

.. function:: bool obs_startup(const char *locale, const char *module_config_path, profiler_name_store_t *store)

   Initializes the OBS core context.
  
   :param  locale:             The locale to use for modules
                               (E.G. "en-US")
   :param  module_config_path: Path to module config storage directory
                               (or *NULL* if none)
   :param  store:              The profiler name store for OBS to use or NULL
   :return:                    *false* if already initialized or failed
                               to initialize

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_shutdown(void)

   Releases all data associated with OBS and terminates the OBS context.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_initialized(void)

   :return: true if the main OBS context has been initialized

---------------------

.. function:: uint32_t obs_get_version(void)

   :return: The current core version

---------------------

.. function:: const char *obs_get_version_string(void)

   :return: The current core version string

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_set_locale(const char *locale)

   Sets a new locale to use for modules.  This will call
   obs_module_set_locale for each module with the new locale.
  
   :param  locale: The locale to use for modules

---------------------

.. function:: const char *obs_get_locale(void)

   :return: The current locale

---------------------

.. function:: profiler_name_store_t *obs_get_profiler_name_store(void)

   :return: The profiler name store (see util/profiler.h) used by OBS,
            which is either a name store passed to obs_startup, an
            internal name store, or NULL in case obs_initialized()
            returns false.

---------------------

.. function:: int obs_reset_video(struct obs_video_info *ovi)

   Sets base video output base resolution/fps/format.
  
   Note: This data cannot be changed if an output is currently active.

   Note: The graphics module cannot be changed without fully destroying
   the OBS context.

   :param   ovi: Pointer to an obs_video_info structure containing the
                 specification of the graphics subsystem,
   :return:      | OBS_VIDEO_SUCCESS          - Success
                 | OBS_VIDEO_NOT_SUPPORTED    - The adapter lacks capabilities
                 | OBS_VIDEO_INVALID_PARAM    - A parameter is invalid
                 | OBS_VIDEO_CURRENTLY_ACTIVE - Video is currently active
                 | OBS_VIDEO_MODULE_NOT_FOUND - The graphics module is not found
                 | OBS_VIDEO_FAIL             - Generic failure

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   struct obs_video_info {
           /**
            * Graphics module to use (usually "libobs-opengl" or "libobs-d3d11")
            */
           const char          *graphics_module;
   
           uint32_t            fps_num;       /**< Output FPS numerator */
           uint32_t            fps_den;       /**< Output FPS denominator */
   
           uint32_t            base_width;    /**< Base compositing width */
           uint32_t            base_height;   /**< Base compositing height */
   
           uint32_t            output_width;  /**< Output width */
           uint32_t            output_height; /**< Output height */
           enum video_format   output_format; /**< Output format */
   
           /** Video adapter index to use (NOTE: avoid for optimus laptops) */
           uint32_t            adapter;
   
           /** Use shaders to convert to different color formats */
           bool                gpu_conversion;
   
           enum video_colorspace colorspace;  /**< YUV type (if YUV) */
           enum video_range_type range;       /**< YUV range (if YUV) */
   
           enum obs_scale_type scale_type;    /**< How to scale if scaling */
   };

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_reset_audio(const struct obs_audio_info *oai)

   Sets base audio output format/channels/samples/etc.

   Note: Cannot reset base audio if an output is currently active.

   :return: *true* if successful, *false* otherwise

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   struct obs_audio_info {
           uint32_t            samples_per_sec;
           enum speaker_layout speakers;
   };

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_get_video_info(struct obs_video_info *ovi)

   Gets the current video settings.
   
   :return: *false* if no video

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_get_audio_info(struct obs_audio_info *oai)

   Gets the current audio settings.
   
   :return: *false* if no audio

---------------------


Libobs Objects
--------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_source_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all source types (inputs, filters, transitions, etc).

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_input_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available inputs source types.
  
   Inputs are general source inputs (such as capture sources, device sources,
   etc).

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_filter_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available filter source types.
  
   Filters are sources that are used to modify the video/audio output of
   other sources.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_transition_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available transition source types.
  
   Transitions are sources used to transition between two or more other
   sources.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_output_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available output types.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_encoder_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available encoder types.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_enum_service_types(size_t idx, const char **id)

   Enumerates all available service types.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_sources(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_source_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates all input sources.
  
   Callback function returns true to continue enumeration, or false to end
   enumeration.
  
   Use :c:func:`obs_source_get_ref()` or
   :c:func:`obs_source_get_weak_source()` if you want to retain a
   reference after obs_enum_sources finishes.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_scenes(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_source_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates all scenes.
  
   Callback function returns true to continue enumeration, or false to end
   enumeration.
  
   Use :c:func:`obs_source_get_ref()` or
   :c:func:`obs_source_get_weak_source()` if you want to retain a
   reference after obs_enum_scenes finishes.
 
---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_outputs(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_output_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates outputs.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_encoders(bool (*enum_proc)(void*, obs_encoder_t*), void *param)

   Enumerates encoders.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_get_source_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets a source by its name.
  
   Increments the source reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_source_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_get_transition_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets a transition by its name.
  
   Increments the source reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_source_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_output_t *obs_get_output_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets an output by its name.

   Increments the output reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_output_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_encoder_t *obs_get_encoder_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets an encoder by its name.

   Increments the encoder reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_encoder_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_service_t *obs_get_service_by_name(const char *name)

   Gets an service by its name.

   Increments the service reference counter, use
   :c:func:`obs_service_release()` to release it when complete.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_data_t *obs_save_source(obs_source_t *source)

   :return: A new reference to a source's saved data

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_load_source(obs_data_t *data)

   :return: A source created from saved data

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_load_sources(obs_data_array_t *array, obs_load_source_cb cb, void *private_data)

   Helper function to load active sources from a data array.

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   typedef void (*obs_load_source_cb)(void *private_data, obs_source_t *source);

---------------------

.. function:: obs_data_array_t *obs_save_sources(void)

   :return: A data array with the saved data of all active sources

---------------------

.. function:: obs_data_array_t *obs_save_sources_filtered(obs_save_source_filter_cb cb, void *data)

   :return: A data array with the saved data of all active sources,
            filtered by the *cb* function

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   typedef bool (*obs_save_source_filter_cb)(void *data, obs_source_t *source);

---------------------


Video, Audio, and Graphics
--------------------------

.. function:: void obs_enter_graphics(void)

   Helper function for entering the OBS graphics context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_leave_graphics(void)

   Helper function for leaving the OBS graphics context.

---------------------

.. function:: audio_t *obs_get_audio(void)

   :return: The main audio output handler for this OBS context

---------------------

.. function:: video_t *obs_get_video(void)

   :return: The main video output handler for this OBS context

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_set_output_source(uint32_t channel, obs_source_t *source)

   Sets the primary output source for a channel.

---------------------

.. function:: obs_source_t *obs_get_output_source(uint32_t channel)

   Gets the primary output source for a channel and increments the reference
   counter for that source.  Use :c:func:`obs_source_release()` to release.

---------------------

.. function:: gs_effect_t *obs_get_base_effect(enum obs_base_effect effect)

   Returns a commoinly used base effect.

   :param effect: | Can be one of the following values:
                  | OBS_EFFECT_DEFAULT             - RGB/YUV
                  | OBS_EFFECT_DEFAULT_RECT        - RGB/YUV (using texture_rect)
                  | OBS_EFFECT_OPAQUE              - RGB/YUV (alpha set to 1.0)
                  | OBS_EFFECT_SOLID               - RGB/YUV (solid color only)
                  | OBS_EFFECT_BICUBIC             - Bicubic downscale
                  | OBS_EFFECT_LANCZOS             - Lanczos downscale
                  | OBS_EFFECT_BILINEAR_LOWRES     - Bilinear low resolution downscale
                  | OBS_EFFECT_PREMULTIPLIED_ALPHA - Premultiplied alpha

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_render_main_view(void)

   Renders the main view.

   Note: This function is deprecated.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_render_main_texture(void)

   Renders the main output texture.  Useful for rendering a preview pane
   of the main output.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_set_master_volume(float volume)

   Sets the master user volume.

---------------------

.. function:: float obs_get_master_volume(void)

   :return: The master user volume

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_enum_audio_monitoring_devices(obs_enum_audio_device_cb cb, void *data)

   Enumerates audio devices which can be used for audio monitoring.

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   typedef bool (*obs_enum_audio_device_cb)(void *data, const char *name, const char *id);

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_set_audio_monitoring_device(const char *name, const char *id)

   Sets the current audio device for audio monitoring.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_get_audio_monitoring_device(const char **name, const char **id)

   Gets the current audio device for audio monitoring.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_add_main_render_callback(void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)
              void obs_remove_main_render_callback(void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)

   Adds/removes a main rendering callback.  Allows custom rendering to
   the main stream/recording output.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_add_raw_video_callback(const struct video_scale_info *conversion, void (*callback)(void *param, struct video_data *frame), void *param)
              void obs_remove_raw_video_callback(void (*callback)(void *param, struct video_data *frame), void *param)

   Adds/removes a raw video callback.  Allows the ability to obtain raw
   video frames without necessarily using an output.

   :param conversion: Specifies conversion requirements.  Can be NULL.
   :param callback:   The callback that receives raw video frames.
   :param param:      The private data associated with the callback.


Primary signal/procedure handlers
---------------------------------

.. function:: signal_handler_t *obs_get_signal_handler(void)

   :return: The primary obs signal handler

   See :ref:`core_signal_handler_reference` for more information on
   core signals.

---------------------

.. function:: proc_handler_t *obs_get_proc_handler(void)

   :return: The primary obs procedure handler


.. _core_signal_handler_reference:

Core OBS Signals
----------------

**source_create** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been created.

**source_destroy** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been destroyed.

**source_remove** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been removed (:c:func:`obs_source_remove()`
   has been called on the source).

**source_save** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is being saved.

**source_load** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is being loaded.

**source_activate** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been activated in the main view (visible on
   stream/recording).

**source_deactivate** (ptr source)

   Called when a source has been deactivated from the main view (no
   longer visible on stream/recording).

**source_show** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is visible on any display and/or on the main
   view.

**source_hide** (ptr source)

   Called when a source is no longer visible on any display and/or on
   the main view.

**source_rename** (ptr source, string new_name, string prev_name)

   Called when a source has been renamed.

**source_volume** (ptr source, in out float volume)

   Called when a source's volume has changed.

**source_transition_start** (ptr source)

   Called when a transition has started its transition.

**source_transition_video_stop** (ptr source)

   Called when a transition has stopped its video transitioning.

**source_transition_stop** (ptr source)

   Called when a transition has stopped its transition.

**channel_change** (int channel, in out ptr source, ptr prev_source)

   Called when :c:func:`obs_set_output_source()` has been called.

**master_volume** (in out float volume)

   Called when the master volume has changed.

**hotkey_layout_change** ()

   Called when the hotkey layout has changed.

**hotkey_register** (ptr hotkey)

   Called when a hotkey has been registered.

**hotkey_unregister** (ptr hotkey)

   Called when a hotkey has been unregistered.

**hotkey_bindings_changed** (ptr hotkey)

   Called when a hotkey's bindings has changed.

---------------------


.. _display_reference:

Displays
--------

.. function:: obs_display_t *obs_display_create(const struct gs_init_data *graphics_data)

   Adds a new window display linked to the main render pipeline.  This creates
   a new swap chain which updates every frame.
  
   *(Important note: do not use more than one display widget within the
   hierarchy of the same base window; this will cause presentation
   stalls on Macs.)*

   :param  graphics_data: The swap chain initialization data
   :return:               The new display context, or NULL if failed

   Relevant data types used with this function:

.. code:: cpp

   enum gs_color_format {
           [...]
           GS_RGBA,
           GS_BGRX,
           GS_BGRA,
           GS_RGBA16F,
           GS_RGBA32F,
           [...]
   };
   
   enum gs_zstencil_format {
           GS_ZS_NONE,
           GS_Z16,
           GS_Z24_S8,
           GS_Z32F,
           GS_Z32F_S8X24
   };
   
   struct gs_window {
   #if defined(_WIN32)
           void                    *hwnd;
   #elif defined(__APPLE__)
           __unsafe_unretained id  view;
   #elif defined(__linux__) || defined(__FreeBSD__)
           uint32_t                id;
           void                    *display;
   #endif
   };
   
   struct gs_init_data {
           struct gs_window        window;
           uint32_t                cx, cy;
           uint32_t                num_backbuffers;
           enum gs_color_format    format;
           enum gs_zstencil_format zsformat;
           uint32_t                adapter;
   };

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_destroy(obs_display_t *display)

   Destroys a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_resize(obs_display_t *display, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy)

   Changes the size of a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_add_draw_callback(obs_display_t *display, void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)

   Adds a draw callback for a display context, which will be called
   whenever the display is rendered.
  
   :param  display: The display context
   :param  draw:    The draw callback which is called each time a frame
                    updates
   :param  param:   The user data to be associated with this draw callback

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_remove_draw_callback(obs_display_t *display, void (*draw)(void *param, uint32_t cx, uint32_t cy), void *param)

   Removes a draw callback for a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_set_enabled(obs_display_t *display, bool enable)

   Enables/disables a display context.

---------------------

.. function:: bool obs_display_enabled(obs_display_t *display)

   :return: *true* if the display is enabled, *false* otherwise

---------------------

.. function:: void obs_display_set_background_color(obs_display_t *display, uint32_t color)

   Sets the background (clear) color for the display context.
