CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

Contributing
============

Quick Links for Contributing
----------------------------

- Compiling and building OBS Studio:
  https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/wiki/Install-Instructions

- Our bug tracker:
  https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/issues

- Discord Server: https://obsproject.com/discord

- Development chat: #development on the Discord server (see above)
 
- Development forum:
  https://obsproject.com/forum/list/general-development.21/

- Developer/API Documentation:
  https://obsproject.com/docs

- To contribute language translations, do not make pull requests.
  Instead, use crowdin.  Read here for more information:
  https://obsproject.com/forum/threads/how-to-contribute-translations-for-obs.16327/

Coding Guidelines
-----------------

- OBS Studio uses kernel normal form (linux variant), for more
  information, please read here:
  https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/Documentation/process/coding-style.rst

- Avoid trailing spaces.  To view trailing spaces before making a
  commit, use "git diff" on your changes.  If colors are enabled for
  git in the command prompt, it will show you any whitespace issues
  marked with red.

- Tabs for indentation, spaces for alignment.  Tabs are treated as 8
  columns wide.

- 80 columns max

Commit Guidelines
-----------------

- OBS Studio uses the 50/72 standard for commits.  50 characters max
  for the title (excluding module prefix), an empty line, and then a
  full description of the commit, wrapped to 72 columns max.  See this
  link for more information: http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/

- Make sure commit titles are always in present tense, and are not
  followed by punctuation.

- Prefix each commit's titles with the module name, followed by a colon
  and a space (unless modifying a file in the base directory).  After
  that, the first word should be capitalized.

  So for example, if you are modifying the obs-ffmpeg plugin::

    obs-ffmpeg: Fix bug with audio output

  Or for libobs::

    libobs: Fix source not displaying

  Note: When modifying cmake modules, just prefix with "cmake".

- If you still need examples, please view the commit history.

Conduct Guidelines
------------------

- Contributors to the OBS Project are expected to abide by the OBS Project Code of Conduct: https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/blob/master/COC.rst

Commit message:

CONTRIBUTING.rst: Add service submission guidelines (#5562)

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

Contributing
============

Quick Links for Contributing
----------------------------

- Compiling and building OBS Studio:
  https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/wiki/Install-Instructions

- Our bug tracker:
  https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/issues

- Discord Server: https://obsproject.com/discord

- Development chat: #development on the Discord server (see above)
 
- Development forum:
  https://obsproject.com/forum/list/general-development.21/

- Developer/API Documentation:
  https://obsproject.com/docs

- To contribute language translations, do not make pull requests.
  Instead, use crowdin.  Read here for more information:
  https://obsproject.com/forum/threads/how-to-contribute-translations-for-obs.16327/

- To add a new service to OBS Studio please see the service submission guidelines:
  https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/wiki/Service-Submission-Guidelines

Coding Guidelines
-----------------

- OBS Studio uses kernel normal form (linux variant), for more
  information, please read here:
  https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/Documentation/process/coding-style.rst

- Avoid trailing spaces.  To view trailing spaces before making a
  commit, use "git diff" on your changes.  If colors are enabled for
  git in the command prompt, it will show you any whitespace issues
  marked with red.

- Tabs for indentation, spaces for alignment.  Tabs are treated as 8
  columns wide.

- 80 columns max

Commit Guidelines
-----------------

- OBS Studio uses the 50/72 standard for commits.  50 characters max
  for the title (excluding module prefix), an empty line, and then a
  full description of the commit, wrapped to 72 columns max.  See this
  link for more information: http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/

- Make sure commit titles are always in present tense, and are not
  followed by punctuation.

- Prefix each commit's titles with the module name, followed by a colon
  and a space (unless modifying a file in the base directory).  After
  that, the first word should be capitalized.

  So for example, if you are modifying the obs-ffmpeg plugin::

    obs-ffmpeg: Fix bug with audio output

  Or for libobs::

    libobs: Fix source not displaying

  Note: When modifying cmake modules, just prefix with "cmake".

- If you still need examples, please view the commit history.

Conduct Guidelines
------------------

- Contributors to the OBS Project are expected to abide by the OBS Project Code of Conduct: https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/blob/master/COC.rst
